2.1 - Introduction
The cellular concept: Many lower power transmitters (small cells), each providing coverage to only a small portion of the service area.
Each BS is allocated a portion of the total number of channels available to the entire system, and nearby base stations are assigned
different groups of channels so that the interference between base stations (and the mobile users under their control)  is minimized.
By systematically spacing BSs and their channel throughout a market, the available channels are distributed throughout the geographic
region and may be reused as many times as necessary, so long as the interference between co-channel stations is kept below acceptable
levels.
2.2 - Frequency Reuse
Hexagons and formula to find the nearest co-channel neighbors
2.5 - Interference and System Capacity
Sources of interference: another mobile in the same cell, a call in progress in a neighboring cell, other BSs operating in the same
frequency band, non-cellular systems leaking energy into the cellular frequency band.
Major types of system-generated cellular interference are co-channel and adjacent channel interference.
2.5.1 - Co-channel Interference and System Capacity
Co-channel cells are the cells that use the same set of frequencies in a given coverage area.
Thermal noise can be overcome by increasing the signal-to-noise ration (SNR), but co-channel interference cannot be combated by simply
increasing the carrier power of a transmitter, because an increase in carrier transmit power increases the interference to neighboring
co-channel cells.
To reduce co-channel interference, co-channel cells must be physically separated by a minimum distance to provide sufficient isolation
dute to propagation.
2.7.2 - Sectoring

3.1 - Introduction to Radio Wave Propagation
reflection, diffraction and scattering
multipath fading
path loss
large-scale model: predict the mean signal strength for an arbitrary T-R separation distance, characterize signal strength over large
T-R separation distances.
small-scale model: characterize the rapid fluctuations of the received signal strength over very short travel distances or short time
durations.
3.2 - Free Space Propagation Model
Used when the transmitter and receiver have a clear, unobstructed line-of-sight path between them.
Friis free space equation: Pr(d) = Pt*Gt*Gr*l²/(4pi)²/d²/L
Path Loss: difference in db between transmitted and received power
3.9.1 - Log-distance Path Loss model
average large-scale
PL(d) = PL(d0) + 10nlog(d/d0) [dB]
n: path loss exponent, depends on specific propagation environment (free space = 2, obstructions > 2)
d0: close-in reference
3.9.2 - Log-normal shadowing
Previous equation doesn't consider that the surrounding environmental clutter may be vastly different at two different locations having
the same T-R separation, this leads to measured signals which are vastly different than the average value.
Measurements have shown that PL(d) is log-normally(normal in dB) distributed about the mean value (previous).
PL(d) = PL*(d) + Xo, Xo = Gaussian(0, o)
3.10 - Outdoor Propagation Models
Models to take into account the irregularities of the terrain like the earth curvature, mountains, buildings, trees, etc.
3.10.3 - Okumura Model
Based on mesuared data for prediction in urban areas, frequencies in the range [150MHz, 1920MHz], distances of [1km, 100km] and antenna heights of [30m, 1000m].
Is basically a set of curves giving the median attenuation relative to free space (Amu).
L50(dB) = Lf + Amu(f,d) - G(He) - G(Hre)-Garea
G(Hte) : base station antenna height gain factor
G(Hre) : mobile antenna height gain factor
Garea  : environment type gain factor

G(Hte) = 20log(Hte/200), 30m <Hte <1000m
G(Hre) = 10log(Hre/3), Hre <= 3m; 20log(Hre/3), 10m>Hre > 3m

Simple and best in terms of accuracy
3.10.4 - Hata Model
Empirical formulation of the graphical path loss data provied by Okumura
(A lot  of regressions)
3.10.5 - PCS Extension to Hata Model
(More regressions)
4 - Mobile Radio Propagation: Small-Scale Fading and Multipath
Fading is the rapid fluctation of the amplitude of a radio signal over a short period of time or travel distance.
Is caused by interference between versions of the transmitted signal which arrive at the receiver at slightly different times.
4.1 - Small-scale Multipath Propagation
4.1.1 - Factors influencing small-scale fading
- Multipath propagation: presence of reflectiing objects and scatters that dissipates signals in amplitude, phase and time.
Multiple versions arrive at the receiving antenna causing fluctuations in signal strenght.
- Speed of the mobile: relative motion between BS and mobile results in random frequency modulation due to Doppler shifts on each multipath component.
- Speed of surrounding objects: More doppler shift
- The transmission bandwidth of the signal: 
4.1.2 - Doppler Shift
Physics