1 - Introduction: The Wireless Communication Channel
1.1 - Introduction
1.2 - Concepts of a wireless channel
1.3 - The Electromagnetic spectrum
Frequencies in the range [3kHz, 300GHz]
(VL, L, M, H, VH, UH, SH, EH)F
1.4 - History
1.5 - System Types
- Satellite fixed links: These are typically created between fixed earth stations with
large dish antennas and geostationary earth-orbiting satellites. The propagation effects are
largely due to the Earth’s atmosphere, including meteorological effects such as rain. Usually
operated in the SHF and EHF bands.
- Terrestrial fixed links: Used for creating high data rate links between points on
the Earth, for services such as telephone and data networks, plus interconnections between
base stations in cellular systems. Also used for covering wide areas in urban and suburban
environments for telephone and data services to residential and commercial buildings.
Meteorological effects are again significant, together with the obstructing effects of hills,
trees and buildings. Frequencies from VHF through to EHF are common.
- Megacells: These are provided by satellite systems (or by high-altitude
platforms such as stratospheric balloons) to mobile users, allowing coverage of very wide
areas with reasonably low user densities. A single satellite in a low earth orbit would
typically cover a region of 1000 km in diameter. The propagation effects are dominated by
objects close to the user, but atmospheric effects also play a role at higher frequencies.
Most systems operate at L(1-2 GHz) and S(2-4 GHz) bands to provide voice and low-rate data services,
but systems operating as high as Ka(26-40 GHz) band can be deployed to provide Internet access at
high data rates over limited areas.
Macrocells:  Designed to provide mobile and broadcast services (including
both voice and data), particularly outdoors, to rural, suburban and urban environments
with medium traffic densities. Base station antenna heights are greater than the surrounding
buildings, providing a cell radius from around 1 km to many tens of kilometres. Mostly
operated at VHF and UHF. May also be used to provide fixed broadband access to
buildings at high data rates, typically at UHF and low SHF frequencies.
Microcells: Designed for high traffic densities in urban and suburban areas to
users both outdoors and within buildings. Base station antennas are lower than nearby
building rooftops, so coverage area is defined by street layout. Cell length up to around
500 m. Again mostly operated at VHF and UHF, but services as high as 60 GHz have been
studied.
Picocells: Very high traffic density or high data rate applications in indoor
environments. Users may be both mobile and fixed; fixed users are exemplified by wireless
local area networks between computers. Coverage is defined by the shape and characteristics of rooms, 
and service quality is dictated by the presence of furniture and people.
1.6 - Aims of Cellullar Systems

Coverage and mobility: The system must be available at all locations where users wish to
use it. In the early development of a new system, this implies outdoor coverage over a wide
area. As the system is developed and users become more demanding, the depth of
coverage must be extended to include increasing numbers of indoor locations. In order
to operate with a single device between different systems, the systems must provide
mobility with respect to the allocation of resources and support of interworking between
different standards.
Capacity: As the number of users in a mobile system grows, the demands placed on the
resources available from the allocated spectrum grow proportionately. These demands are
exacerbated by increasing use of high data rate services. This necessitates the assignment
of increasing numbers of channels and thus dense reuse of channels between cells in order
to minimise problems with blocked or dropped calls. If a call is blocked, users are refused
access to the network because there are no available channels. If a call is dropped, it may
be interrupted because the user moves into a cell with no free channels. Dropped calls can
also arise from inadequate coverage.
Quality: In a mature network, the emphasis is on ensuring that the services provided to the
users are of high quality – this includes the perceived speech quality in a voice system and
the bit error rate (BER), throughput, latency and jitter in a data system.

Subsequent chapters will show that path loss and shadowing dominate in establishing good
coverage and capacity, while quality is particularly determined by the fast-fading effects

1.7 - Cellular Networks
1.8 - The Cellular Concept
A very approximate model of the path loss: Pr/Pt = 1/L = kHmHb²/r^4/f²
